JUDY WOODRUFF: A weekend of
work for world powers and Iran.
Disputes over arms embargoes
and economic sanctions relief
prolong nuclear negotiations.
Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Also ahead: It's Friday. David
Brooks and E.J. Dionne are here
to analyze the week's
news.
Plus, Serena Williams enters the
Wimbledon finals on the verge of
making history,one
match away from her
second Grand Slam.
And a harrowing look at the rise
and fall of British soul singer
Amy Winehouse. A
documentary sheds light on the
star's talent, fame and the
addiction that cut her life
short.
you how brilliant she was, and
for you to kind of fall in love
her. When you fall
in love with her, then you feel
very different when you see the
archive footage of the paparazzi
and her being hounded.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Those are some
of the stories we're covering on
tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: The head of the
federal government's personnel
office resigned today in the
wake
of a massive data
breach at the agency.
Katherine Archuleta stepped down
after disclosures more than 21
million current, former and
prospective
federal employees were affected.
White House spokesman Josh
Earnest said today the president
believes new leadership is badly
need.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary: Director Archuleta
did offer her resignation
today. She did so of her own
volition. She recognizes, as
the White House does, that
the urgent challenges currently
facing the Office of Personnel
Management require a manager
with a specialized set of
skills and experiences.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In her statement
today, Archuleta said she wants
to let the personnel office
-- quote -- "move beyond
the current challenges."
Federal Reserve Chair Janet
Yellen signaled today the U.S.
Central Bank is ready to raise
interest rates this year. But
in a speech, she also said that
could change because the
economic outlook is -- quote
-- "highly uncertain."
Meanwhile, hopes for a Greek
bailout deal buoyed Wall Street.
The Dow Jones industrial
average gained more than 210
points to close at 17760. The
Nasdaq rose 75 points and
the S&P added 25. For the week,
the Dow gained a fraction of 1
percent. The Nasdaq
and the S&P fell a fraction.
It turns out that the suspect in
the church shootings in
Charleston, South Carolina,
should
have been legally barred from
buying his .45-caliber handgun.
The FBI said today that a
background
check failed to spot Dylann
Roof's arrest for drug
possession weeks earlier. FBI
Director
James Comey said he blames
incomplete and inaccurate
paperwork.
The Charleston shootings led
directly to removing the
Confederate Battle Flag from
South Carolina's
state capitol grounds today. An
estimated 10,000 people cheered
and chanted as an honor
guard of state troopers lowered
the banner. Longtime civil
rights activists were jubilant.
for the first time in my life,
the state has said that we're
all one and all lives matter
and, if it offends us, we will
take it down. And for all these
years, the state wouldn't
do it. But it was done
today. It's an awesome day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Confederate
banner had been on the state
capitol grounds for more
than 50 years. After being
taken down today, it was moved
to a nearby museum.
The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration is upping the
warnings on some popular
anti-inflammatory
drugs. The agency says the
change affects non-aspirin
painkillers like ibuprofen and
naproxen sold over the counter
and by prescription. New labels
will add to existing warnings
about increased risk of
heart attack and stroke.
The U.S. House of
Representatives voted
overwhelmingly today to speed
new treatments to market. The
bill is meant to expedite
approval of drugs and medical
devices by the Food and Drug
Administration.
It also boosts funding for
biomedical research by nearly $9
billion. Consumer groups warned
that the bill will weaken
safeguards against potentially
dangerous products. The Senate
has yet to take up the issue.
In Yemen, fighting raged on,
even as a U.N.-brokered
humanitarian truce was supposed
to take effect.
Saudi-led airstrikes blasted
Shiite rebel targets in Sanaa,
the Yemeni capital city.
The rebels, in turn,
shelled the city of Aden.
A U.N. spokesman said both sides
had agreed to stop fighting.
AHMAD FAWZI, United Nations
Spokesman: If this humanitarian
pause is respected, during
any humanitarian pause, the
humanitarian agencies and their
partners aim to reach people in
need with essential supplies,
and that includes everything,
medicine, vaccination, food,
water,
fuel.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The truce is
supposed to last for a week, and
aims to get aid to some
21 million people.
The U.N. Refugee Agency sounded
the alarm today over a flood of
refugees into Greece,
even as that country faces
bankruptcy. More than 77,000
migrants have landed on Greek
islands this year, an average of
1,000 per day. The U.N.
appealed to the European Union
to step in before the
situation gets worse.
WILLIAM SPINDLER, International
Organization for Migration: We
have seen huge expressions
of solidarity from the Greek
people, the Greek public,
organizing distributions of
food,
water, milk for the babies and
so on, which is particularly
moving, given the economic
situation in Greece. But Greece
urgently needs help, and we
expect Europe to step forward.
war in Syria.
New York City turned out today
to celebrate the U.S. women's
soccer team and their World
Cup victory. Throngs lined
streets in Lower Manhattan for a
ticker tape parade. It was
a first for a women's sport
team, and fans held signs and
chanted "USA." The Americans
beat Japan last weekend for a
record Third World Cup
championship.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
an Iran nuclear deal delayed;
Greece's latest offer to win
a European bailout; violence,
crime and incarceration rates
for undocumented immigrants in
the U.S.;
David Brooks and E.J. Dionne on
the week's news; Serena Williams
eyes her second grand
slam; and a new look at a
British rock star whose fame and
addiction spelled her demise.
The world's major powers will
continue to negotiate with Iran
throughout the weekend,
aiming to clinch an agreement
that would curb that country's
nuclear program. A number
of self-imposed deadlines
have come and gone.
For an update on where things
stand, we turn to Michael Gordon
of The New York Times,who
has been covering the talks in
Vienna. I spoke with him a
short while ago.
Michael, welcome.
It's late Friday night there,
another delay. Where do things
stand?
MICHAEL GORDON, Diplomatic
Correspondent, The New York
Times: Well, I do have the
sense that they're beginning to
close in on the final accord.
This is going to be the
third weekend that we're here in
Vienna, and I'm positive that
Secretary of State John
Kerry has never been in one
place as long as he's been here
as the secretary of state.
But there is a sense of
progress, and we're waiting to
see if this thing comes together
in the next day or two.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is it clear what
they have made progress on and
where the hangups are
still?
MICHAEL GORDON: Well, I think
they have made a lot of progress
in defining the nuclear
provisions of the accord.
Certainly, we already know that
they have decided on the number
of centrifuges Iran
will be allowed to have. I
think they have made progress on
what research and development
will be allowed on new types of
centrifuges. I think there have
been some very delicate
issues to work out on -- in
terms of sanctions and the
timing of sanctions relief.
And there was a new one that
cropped up this week. Actually,
it was an old one that
reemerged,
and that's whether to lift the
arms embargo on Iran. And
that's been a very contentious
issue this past week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So why is that
coming up at the last minute?
MICHAEL GORDON: Well, it's
something that Americans really
thought they had resolved
or at least finessed in Lausanne
in April, and previous Security
Council resolutions
at the United Nations banned the
import or export of conventional
arms and missile technology
to Iran.
And the Iranians had wanted this
off, but that's really a
nonstarter in the American
political system. I mean, the
idea that you're going to give
Iran billions of dollars
in sanctions relief, so that
they can go buy conventional
arms that increases their
military
power in the region is just not
going to fly in the American
Congress or even among President
Obama's Democratic
allies in the Congress.
And the Americans thought they
had that resolved, but it came
back this week. And the
Iranians
had some support really from the
Russians and the Chinese, both
of whom want to sell
them arms.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you
see that getting resolved?
MICHAEL GORDON: Well, I really
don't think this is one that the
United States can -- will
give in on, and I think probably
the best resolution would be if
both sides come to
the conclusion that there is a
lot more at stake in this
agreement.
This is probably the most
important arms agreement
in several decades, with all
sorts of ramifications for
U.S.-Iranian relation, for the
region.
And I think, in the end, both
sides are going to come to the
conclusion that that's
too important to risk for the
lifting of the arms embargo. I
don't think it will be lifted.
I think it will remain a
feature of a U.N. resolution and
I think the Iranians the
Russians
just won't like it and maybe
they will sort of agree to
disagree. That would be my best
guess as to how this comes out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Michael, you
mentioned some disagreement or
difference of opinion
among the U.S. and its
negotiating partners. Is that a
serious? Is that turning out
to be something serious or what?
How do you see the group sitting
across the table
from Iran holding together?
MICHAEL GORDON: Well, the
United States, and particularly
Secretary Kerry, have really
been in the lead for the last
six months, if not longer, and
the other five countries
involved in the talks with Iran
show up at critical junctures.
And the United States has often
said that the Russians have been
very cooperative in
these talks, that this has been
one area of U.S.-Russian
relations where things have gone
well, unlike Ukraine or
Syria or arms control.
But I think the Russians have
been a bit difficult over this
past week because of their
interest
in getting the arms embargo
lifted for their own, really,
financial reasons. But I think,
in the end, if Iran can live
with the agreement, the Russians
and Chinese will go along, and
I don't really see it
as a show-stopper.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Gordon
with The New York Times spending
one more weekend in Vienna,
we thank you.
MICHAEL GORDON: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: the drama
in Greece heading toward a
climax at a Sunday summit
of European leaders.
The Greek prime minister has now
offered concessions to
creditors, ranging from a higher
sales
tax, the so-called VAT -- VAT --
to pension changes. The goal?
A new bailout worth
nearly $60 billion.
Jonathan Rugman of Independent
Television News reports.
JONATHAN RUGMAN: Climbing the
steps of Greece's Parliament
today, the members of a
government
forced into a last -minute climb
down. Days ago, they were
railing against Greece's
creditors.
Today, they were talking up the
chances of a new deal with them
this weekend.
OLGA GEROVASILI, Greek
Parliament Member (through
translator): I am certain we
will reach
an agreement. There was never
any doubt. The battle was
lengthy and long and will
reach its conclusion by taking
the steps you already know
about.
JONATHAN RUGMAN: And greeted
like a conquering hero, Alexis
Tsipras, the prime minister,
who is now pushing through
Parliament the kind of austerity
61 percent of Greek voters
rejected last weekend, because
money or lack of it talks.
These banks could be bankrupt by
Monday, and so the government,
it seems, has blinked.
Greece's proposals are on time
and to the kind of budget a wary
Eurozone might accept,
giving into more austerity, with
a standard VAT rate at 23
percent beginning in October,
reducing the 30 percent VAT tax
break applied to tourism-rich
Greek islands, corporation
tax rising from 26 percent to 28
percent, as Greece's creditors
demanded, and raising
the standard retirement age to
67 over the next seven years.
But what is Mr. Tsipras hoping
to win in return? Well, 53.5
billion euros in loans over
three
years and, crucially,
restructuring the repayment of
Greece's vast debt, though the
13 billion
euros in tax rises and spending
cuts is at least four billion
euros more than the package
Greeks on Sunday voted against.
A new and lasting deal with
Greece will depend on the Greeks
actually doing what they say
they will and not buckling under
the weight of more austerity.
And Germany will need
to agree on some form of debt
relief which doesn't leave
German taxpayers feeling
shortchanged.
But whatever the outcome of
this weekend's talks, Greece is
heading for years of economic
hardship and the debate over its
Eurozone membership is very
unlikely to stop.
No wonder there are protests in
Athens tonight by some of those
who said no and meant it,
though the French, who helped
draw up this plan, are perhaps
prematurely hailing it as
a breakthrough.
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, French
President (through translator):
Since the program they are
presenting is serious and
credible, and because they won't
submit it to the Parliament,
that
shows strength, commitment and
indeed courage. So, the
discussions now need to start,
resume,
with the will to conclude.
JONATHAN RUGMAN: Tonight,
Greece's Parliament is set to
back its government, and
Eurozone
finance ministers may do the
same tomorrow. And if they do,
Greece's banks could be
refinanced and reopen on Monday,
though today's climb-down could
leave the pensioners feeling
worse off than before.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We turn now to
immigration. The complex issue
has remained frozen in
Washington for years, but is
quickly heating up outside the
capital.
Our William Brangham
unravels the debate.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The firestorm
started when in his announcement
that he was running
for president, Donald Trump
turned to the topic of
immigration.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate: When Mexico sends
its people, they're not
sending their best. They're not
sending you. They're not
sending you. They're
sending people that have lots of
problems. And they're bringing
those problems with
us. They're bringing drugs.
They're bringing crime. They're
rapists. And some, I assume,
are good people.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In the weeks
following, major businesses
connected to Trump backed
away from partnerships and
projects with him. They
included NBC, Univision, Macy's,
ESPN,
and the Professional
Golf Association.
For his part, Trump stood by his
comments. But then a tragedy in
San Francisco added
fuel to the fire; 32-year-old
Kathryn Steinle was shot and
killed at the end of last month.
Undocumented immigrant Juan
Lopez-Sanchez confessed to a
reporter that he shot her,
but said it was an accident.
All this has just inflamed the
debate about immigration in the
U.S., whether immigrants
are a positive force in the
country or whether they should
be feared. There are currently
more than 41 million immigrants
in America. Over 11 million are
estimated to be here
illegally.
To help us understand what we
know about the nation's
immigrants, legal and illegal,
I'm
joined by three people who
have studied the research.
Marielena Hincapie is the
executive director of the
National Immigration Law Center,
an
immigration rights group. Marc
Rosenblum is from the
nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute.
And Jessica Vaughan is with the
Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates for tougher
border security.
Welcome to all three of you.
MARC ROSENBLUM, Migration
Policy Institute: Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Marc
Rosenblum, why don't I start
with you first?
Donald Trump is saying that
immigrants come to the country
and they commit a
disproportionate
amount of crime. You have
looked at this data quite a bit.
Is he right?
MARC ROSENBLUM: You know, it's
a very persistent stereotype,
but there's a lot of research
on it, looking at prison
populations and looking at city
crime rates.
And what it shows is that
immigrants are
disproportionately unlikely to
be in prison. The prison
doesn't have a lot of immigrants
in it. And when you look at
crime rates and correlate
them with immigration
populations, immigrants are --
cities with lots of immigrants
don't
have lots of crime.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Sarah (sic)
Vaughan, I know you have looked
at this data as well.
What do you make
of this analysis?
JESSICA VAUGHAN, Center for
Immigration Studies: Well, no,
we have looked at it very
deeply.
or less likely to commit crimes
than anyone else in the
population. The studies that
claim to find that immigrants
are somehow more law-abiding
than Americans are based
on very flawed data, because
that doesn't identify correctly
necessarily what someone's
immigration status is.
What we do know is that there
are certain types of crime that
are very closely associated
with illegal immigration, drug
crimes, gang crimes, smuggling,
trafficking, identity theft,
so that the areas of the country
that have those kinds of
problems need to have some
mechanism for work a good --
they have a legitimate public
safety reason for working with
immigration
enforcement.
But I don't think that's really
the most relevant policy
question for lawmakers here.
And
that is, we know that some
illegal immigrants are here
committing crime, so what do we
do
with those illegal immigrants
who are committing crimes? How
do we handle that?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Marielena
Hincapie, why does this
perception persist? I mean,
Donald
Trump is not the only one that
has raised concerns about
immigrants and crime.
Why do you think we keep
talking about this?
MARIELENA HINCAPIE, Executive
Director, National Immigration
Law Center: That's a great
question.
And I think what we have to
remember is what's at issue here
is really that this is about
a human tragedy. We are talking
about Kate has been murdered in
San Francisco, and this
is not about immigration, but
the perception, the narrative
out there really has its basis
in the scapegoating, the race,
which, often -- for example, the
Willie Hortons of the
world that fuel those myths of
whether it's a black man or a
brown man, like this particular
defendant.
And that's often at the root of
this. And it really is about
society's implicit bias
and the fact that politicians
like Donald Trump are exploiting
this particular tragedy
in San Francisco to move
an anti-immigrant agenda.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Marc
Rosenblum, what do you make of
that? Is that true? Is this
primarily, in your mind,
driven by racial animus?
MARC ROSENBLUM: It's a
persistent stereotype that goes
back a hundred years that
immigrants
commit crimes.
But I would agree with Marielena
that you certainly see
politicians and political
entrepreneurs
sort of exploiting this to
connect these incidents to
immigration more broadly.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Jessica
Vaughan, what do you think about
that? Do you think this
is racism?
JESSICA VAUGHAN:
No, of course, not.
I mean, obviously, it's not true
that immigrants don't commit
crimes. Of course they do.
And, again, the issue is how do
we handle that fraction of the
immigrant population
that has been committing crimes
and has been contributing to
crime rates in our communities?
The logical answer is, they
should be removed. Crime is not
a job Americans won't do. There
is no reason to allow people who
are here in defiance of our laws
to stay here if they
are contributing to crime in our
communities, and, again, it does
exist. It needs to be
acknowledged, and law
enforcement agencies need to be
cooperating to make sure that
they
are finding those criminal
aliens who are preying on people
in the communities and deporting
them as expeditiously
as possible.
And the problem is, is that
there are certain areas, like
San Francisco, where political
leaders have imposed policies on
law enforcement officers to
block immigration enforcement.
And the people they end up
protecting in those cases are
actually the criminals, because
they're allowed to stay in the
community and continue preying
on people there.
So, again, there is no -- if we
can't agree on removing illegal
immigrants who have committed
crimes, then who can we deport?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Marielena
Hincapie, let's talk a little
bit about federal policy.
As you know, in 2005, the
federal government stepped up
its enforcement, and instead of
just -- when they caught people
who were coming across the
border, instead of just sending
them home, they started putting
them into the judicial system.
And I wonder what's
your take on how that policy has
played out? How has the federal
government's role contributed
to this?
MARIELENA HINCAPIE: Yes, I
think Jessica is right. The
fact is that the administration
-- and both the Bush
administration and most recently
the Obama administration have
been
enforcing laws, they have
prioritized people who have
committed crimes.
But, again, that's not what is
at issue here. Why -- San
Francisco, for example, is not
an isolated case. There are
over 300 local and city and
counties across the countries
where law enforcement leaders
themselves have decided that
they needed to change the
policies
to restore trust between the
communities and the police, so
that there was -- individuals
would serve as witnesses and
would report crimes, whether
they were committed by another
immigrant or by a U.S. citizen,
so, again, the fact that we're
suddenly taking this particular
individual case in San Francisco
and jumping to try to make
changes in the federal law,
when, in fact, the federal
law already exists.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I would like
to something of all three of
you. All three of you care
deeply about immigration. You
spend a lot of time thinking
about it, writing about it,
talking about it.
Does something like what
happened with Donald Trump, when
he comes out -- and regardless
of what you think of what he
said, does this help us have
this debate, or is this toxic
to the debate?
MARC ROSENBLUM: I mean, I think
one of the most interesting
things about the Donald Trump
comments is how it highlights
the divide within the Republican
Party, and how, you know,
Republicans
are struggling to respond
positively or negatively to him.
And, ultimately, that's really
going to drive the policy-making
agenda, is sort of how that
party sorts out its conflict
over immigration. So, in that
sense -- it's been a little
bit productive in that sense,
but, you know, it does distract
from real -- you know, to
focus so much on immigrants and
crime does distract from the
issues that do dominate
immigration policy.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Jessica
Vaughan, what is your take on
that? Do you think this
is helping the debate, helping
the conversation move forward?
JESSICA VAUGHAN: Well, the
advocates in our country for
giving amnesty to illegal
aliens and for expanding
immigration would like people to
believe that everyone who is
coming over here is harmless
and here for good reasons.
And what Donald Trump did point
out is that, you know, that not
all immigrants are here
for those reasons, that some of
them are committing crimes, and
we need to have policies in
place
that ensure that they are being
removed as quickly as possible,
and that local jurisdictions
are not allowed to obstruct
immigration enforcement for
political reasons, which leads
inevitably
to people who should be removed
getting released back on to the
streets.
And this is something that
Congress needs to address to
crack down on sanctuary
jurisdictions
and make it clear that they're
expected to comply with
immigration law and that they
may be penalized if they don't.
(CROSSTALK)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Marielena Hincapie, can I get a
last take on -- you about this?
Yes, Donald Trump, the reason
there is such a reaction to
Donald Trump's comments is
because,
in 2015, in the United States,
we are no longer going to accept
that level of intolerance
in our nation, especially from
someone who is trying to become
president of the United
States.
So I do think that, as Marc
said, it helps the debate, only
from the perspective that
it helps us to see which
politicians really believe in a
vision in our country that is
inclusive and which ones have an
intolerant and racist
perspective that basically
labels
all of us immigrants
as criminals.
And that is definitely not a
fact. And the studies show
that, in fact, the majority of
immigrants are not
committing crimes.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
thank you all very much for
joining us tonight.
MARIELENA HINCAPIE: Thank you.
MARC ROSENBLUM: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And to the
analysis of Brooks and Dionne.
That's New York Times columnist
David Brooks and Washington Post
columnist E.J. Dionne. Mark
Shields is away.
Welcome to you both.
E.J. DIONNE: Good
to be with you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let's pick
up this conversation about
immigration. We have just heard
this
rational -- David, this rational
discussion about immigration.
But what Donald Trump
has been saying and
doubling down on has really
started a firestorm. What does
that do to the national -- our
nation's ability to get its
hands around this issue?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, it might be
-- what Trump said is the
dictionary definition of
xenophobia, nativism.
He had a factually inaccurate
statement that generalized about
a whole group of people,
inaccurately, in a slurring
manner. We have got a parking
lot right out here at the
"NewsHour"
where we brought a bunch of
immigrants. And when you pull
up, they're not trying to rape
you. They're not trying to sell
drugs. They're trying to paint
your backyard -- or back porch.
And that's statistically what
the immigrant population is.
They're here to work. And
it's what most people's common
experience of immigrants,
undocumented or not. And
so that's the reality. As Marc
said, the useful thing about
what's happened is that
we have seen this fissure in the
Republican Party, where Jeb Bush
came out very strongly
against Trump, saying he takes
it personally, Rubio again very
strongly.
It has brought them out. It has
brought their ire out, a little
passion in rebutting Trump.
Ted Cruz, a little more
disgraceful, more or less saying
he raises good issues and things
like that. So we have begun to
see a split. The party now has
to confront this. And
I think most of the leading
candidates have, to my mind,
come out on the right side.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So it's been
helpful in understanding where
the Republicans stand on this
issue,
E.J.?
E.J. DIONNE: Well, I think if
you ask most Republicans,
Republican consultants, they
would love to say to Donald
Trump, you're fired, and have
him walk away, because this
has been terrible for the
Republican Party's image.
I mean, David is right about
Bush and Rubio to some degree
pushing back, but they were
very slow to push back. And a
lot of Republicans have been
very cautious in dealing with
Trump.
And I think Latino voters, but
immigrant voters of all kinds
are going to remember
that caution.
And I think what Trump did this
summer is going to last.
Usually, it's 16 months until
the election, a lot of things
will happen, but the nature of
his words, using the word
rapists, are so
powerful, that I...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And murder.
E.J. DIONNE: And murder -- that
I don't think there is any
political eraser that's
going to get rid of
them completely.
This is the last thing
Republicans needed right now.
DAVID BROOKS: I should say, he
was only a Republican since last
week. He's in a
sui generis position of
being a political freak.
E.J. DIONNE: No, I think
it is going to be...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean Trump.
You're talking about Trump.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
E.J. DIONNE: If Trump ever gets
serious, I think the attacks on
him for where he was
on any number of issues,
including now he thinks Hillary
Clinton is the worst secretary
of state in history -- he used
to say he loved Hillary Clinton,
thought she would be a much
stronger candidate
than President Obama.
Now, that's a sin in the
Republican Party, to have said
something nice about Hillary
Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, David, you
don't think the delay, the fact
that it took some of the
other candidates some time to
come forward with their
statement, makes a difference?
on immigration, where John
McCain was on immigration, where
a lot of -- where Bob Dole --
where
a lot of previous
nominees have been.
And the party has wandered into
an anti-immigration or an
anti-immigration reform
direction as
a result of the rise of the talk
radio part of the party. But
that part of the party
is waning, frankly, and I think
it will be very possible for Jeb
Bush or Rubio, whoever
the nominee is, to be where
McCain was and to be where
George W. Bush was.
Those are not ancient history of
the Republican Party. The party
will rediscover that moment.
Republicans?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, it's hard
to give him credit for doing a
favor, but the people who
did the favor were Bush and
Rubio and the party members who
did the right thing.
E.J. DIONNE: I think, if they
come out strong, he will have
done them a perverse kind of
favor.
And I think the reason this is
so harmful to Republicans is not
just Latinos. Mitt
Romney was beaten by Barack
Obama among Asian-Americans
voted by 3-1 in the last
election. Asian-Americans
voted 55 percent for the
first President Bush.
And a lot of that reaction among
Asian-Americans is to this
xenophobia and a sense of
prejudice.
They have got to beat that back
if they are going to have a
chance...
(CROSSTALK)
DAVID BROOKS: It should be
said, in the last midterms, they
did reasonably well among
Asian-Americans. So they're
working that and they're
conscious of it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you don't
see the -- you see the
Republican Party coming through
this,
that this is not going to have a
lasting -- do lasting damage?
DAVID BROOKS: I have this naive
assumption that people are not
complete idiots.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: It just want to
-- just in terms of the issue, I
think the merits are
on the side of the sort of
comprehensive immigration reform
George W. Bush championed.
But just in terms of political
survival, if you just say
they're venal and they just want
to win elections, it's not --
this is not rocket science here.
E.J. DIONNE: But I think the
catch is that a very substantial
part of the Republican
coalition and an even a larger
part of the Tea Party coalition
is very anti-immigrant
or very anti-immigration reform.
So, I don't think it's as easy
as you're saying for Republicans
to do this, even if it is
-- and I agree with you on this
-- in their long-term interest.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, a related
issue, and that is the flag, the
Confederate Flag.
It came down today in South
Carolina. There was a big
celebration. But, meanwhile,
yesterday,
David, at the Capitol, there was
this sudden partisan flare-up
over the flag. Why does
this issue keep
coming up right now?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, I guess, in
my view, the reason the flag
should come down is just
a matter of civic politeness. I
have said this before on this
program. If a large
percentage of your fellow
citizens disapprove of
something, fine, just be
civically polite
and accept their offense and
say, no, I'm going to respect
you.
In both these issues, there is a
large culture war element. What
Donald Trump was exploiting
was the fact that people like us
and people like my newspaper
would come down hard on
him for saying those things
about immigrants. The same with
the Confederate Flag. If
you can get the East Coast and
West Coast establishment and the
mainstream media against
you, you win points
in certain circles.
And so you want to pick those
fights. And so the Confederate
Flag has become one of
those thumb-in-the-eye issues
that people use in order to pick
a culture war fight.
And it helps you in the Sarah
Palin wings. And so I think
it's almost become abstracted.
It's part of the media game
that some people play to get
attention, to pick fights and
to win supports against those
who don't like the mainstream
institutions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does it continue
to be a political issue?
E.J. DIONNE: I think
it's slowly going away.
The problem with it is, this
isn't simply a culture war
issue. People have legitimate
disagreements about abortion,
for example, and we're probably
going to be arguing about
that for a long time. The
Confederate Flag really does
stand for a regime that endorsed
slavery.
The Confederate Flag didn't go
back up in the South until the
1950s and early one 1960s,
very consciously as a symbol of
white supremacy and opposition
to the civil rights.
African-Americans
know that.
And so this isn't just about
cultural politics. This is
about racial politics that we
have
been fighting in our country
from the very, very beginning.
I think that what you saw
in South Carolina was a
wonderful human reaction, even
on the parts of people who had
been for
the flag before, saying not only
was the death of nine people a
horror, but the spirit of
forgiveness from their families
really moved an entire state,
and that's a big deal.
But before we pat ourselves on
the back too much, we should
remember it took nine deaths
of good people to bring that
flag down. That's not very
heartening.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes. But,
still, it's a good day.
E.J. DIONNE: I agree with that.
DAVID BROOKS: While we're upset
about the little kerfuffle in
Washington, bringing the
flag down in South Carolina was
a symbol -- it's bizarre to say
-- but there was a symbol of
hostility to the civil
rights movement.
And so that era of hostility to
the civil rights movement, even
in 2015, it is over
with the bringing down of the
flag. We will have all these
other issues to talk about.
But it's still a remarkable day
that it come down to widespread
cheers. And so it's
a day...
(CROSSTALK)
E.J. DIONNE: No, I don't want
to take away from the good day.
I really agree with you
on that.
But we should -- the Southern
strategy as part of the
Republican strategy going back
to when the civil rights bill
passed, and Lyndon Johnson said
we, meaning Democrats,
have lost the South for a
generation, I mean, it's all
connected to that.
So, yes, I celebrate. But,
again, it still bothers, it
sobers me that it took what it
took to get this done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to ask
you about one other thing, and
that is the Democratic
presidential
contest.
I interviewed Jimmy Carter,
former President Jimmy Carter,
on this program last night.
And among other things, he
complimented, David, Bernie
Sanders. He said he's been
bolder than Hillary Clinton when
it comes to income inequality
and other liberal issues.
How do you see that? We have
been talking about this for
several weeks now, about how
Sanders is drawing bigger
crowds. How do you see this
dynamic playing out, Bernie
Sanders
playing to the left of the party
and what it's doing to the
Clinton campaign?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, it is and
always has been a university
crowd left in this country,
a progressive element at our
many fine universities. And
he's playing to that element.
But that element is not big.
It's not even big within the
Democratic Party. He doesn't
get the working class. He
doesn't get the suburban voter.
He doesn't, by and large,
get African-American and Latino
voters. So there is a huge
ceiling on what he can do.
overwhelming favorite, no matter
how big of crowds he can get in
university towns. Second,
she has to be aware that she
lives in a country where people
are quite suspicious of
government,
more suspicious of government
than they are business.
And, in my view, on substantive
grounds aside, just political
grounds, if she goes over and
seems like a very conventional
big government liberal, it is
going to be much easier for
any Republican to run against
her, because this is not a
country that is sanguine about
government power.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you're
saying that is maybe where she's
headed. Is that what you
see?
E.J. DIONNE: Well, first of
all, Bernie, I have been saying,
is like "Mr. Smith Goes
to Washington," except he's a
socialist from Vermont with a
Brooklyn accent.
(LAUGHTER)
E.J. DIONNE: But there is a
kind of authenticity. The guy
gets up there and you know he's
saying exactly what he thinks.
He's always said these things.
I think that appeals
to lots of people.
And one area I would disagree
with David on is that I think he
will get working-class
votes. There's a lot of -- and
he has gotten working-class in
Vermont and he will get a
lot of union locals, even as
national locals -- endorse
Hillary Clinton.
I think there is a
ceiling. I agree with
that. I don't think he is going
to win the nomination, but he
could -- it's not inconceivable
to me that he could win both in
Iowa and New Hampshire. Hillary
Clinton got only less
than a third of the vote in
Iowa the last time she ran.
And he's very close to New
Hampshire. So, I think those
races could be tight. I think,
as it goes forward, I think
Clinton will still win the
nomination. And on the
government
point...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Even if she were
to lose in Iowa and New
Hampshire?
E.J. DIONNE: Yes. I think she
would still win the nomination.
And it's unlikely she will lose
both. I'm just saying that is a
possibility we shouldn't
write off. In terms of the
government thing, she is going
to give a speech on Monday that
is a very progressive speech
about what government can do for
people.
I think the public's view is
ambivalent. And Stan Greenberg
has it right. The voters
would like the government to do
a lot of stuff. They don't
trust it very much. She has
got to solve that riddle.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Quick last word.
DAVID BROOKS: If she -- she's
going to have an early childhood
piece in that piece Monday.
If she sticks to that, fine.
That's getting people into the
marketplace, so they can have
an opportunity to compete. If
she begins to seem to be
meddling in the marketplace
and capitalism, I do think
people will recoil.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will all be
listening. We have been
listening to you both.
David Brooks, E.J.
Dionne, thank you.
E.J. DIONNE: Thank you so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now to
Wimbledon, where Serena Williams
reigns on.
Tomorrow morning, the tennis
great will attempt another
Serena Slam, holding all four
Grand
Slam titles at once. She won
the U.S. Open last year, and has
since won the Australian
and French opens. She pulled
off the same feat 12 years ago.
At 33 years old, Serena is
seeded number one and she faces
21-year-old Garbine Muguruza
from Spain in the finals.
We are going to look at this
latest run and the remarkable
career of this woman with Tom
Perrotta. He's a sports
correspondent for The Wall
Street Journal and he's
editor-at-large
for "Tennis" magazine.
Tom Perrotta, welcome.
You wrote, I think it was back
in November, about how Serena
Williams then, you said,
had the right to be acclaimed
the best of all time. That was
eight months ago. So
now it's even more so, right?
TOM PERROTTA, The Wall Street
Journal: It is even more so.
It's pretty amazing what
she's doing, especially at this
age. She's won seven Grand Slam
titles in her 30s. It's
really unprecedented.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How
do you explain it?
TOM PERROTTA: It's amazing,
like her resurgence.
She's really improved her
fitness and her speed and her
game a lot in the last few
years.
She hired a new coach and has
really taken off. The thing
that's the really most amazing
about her is the drive that she
has at this age. I think most
players, when they get
into their 30s, a lot of
times, they burn out.
And a I think a lot expected her
Serena Williams to burn out much
earlier than this, because
she won when she was so young.
It's been against the narrative
that everyone really
expected that she's been
this good for this long.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What's different
about her game today than 12
years ago, when she pulled
off this remarkable feat
of all four at one time?
TOM PERROTTA: Much better at
defense, much steadier, better
rallies, really morning reliable
and confident in rallies.
And all the other stuff is still
there, the killer instinct and
all that. The biggest
thing that separates her from
everybody else and always has
for her whole career is her
serve. Her serve is better than
anybody else on the tour by far.
She can ace people
seemingly whenever she needs it.
It's an amazing weapon, really
probably the best serve
that the women's
game has ever seen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What does she
face tomorrow in this young
21-year-old opponent?
TOM PERROTTA: On paper,
it's a big mismatch.
This is her first Grand Slam
final and she's only won one
tournament in her life, but
she's
a very good player and she
played fearlessly at Wimbledon
so far. She's 6-feet tall.
She hits very hard. She moves
well. She has a very good serve
herself. And she really
has nothing to lose out there.
And she sounds confident. And
she was an admirer of Serena
Williams when she was a
kid too, and pretty similar
games. And she also beat her
once at the French Open a few
years ago, actually gave Serena
her worst ever loss in a Grand
Slam. She knows that
she can do it. This is a much
different setting, a much bigger
stage, but she has
the game to do it. It's a
matter of whether she will get
nervous or not.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, as you
said, she's beaten her before.
How significant in tennis
history would it be if Serena
Williams were to pull this off
tomorrow and win, again, four
Grand Slams at one time in one
year?
TOM PERROTTA: It would be the
second time she's done it, which
is really remarkable.
TOM PERROTTA: If she went on to
win the U.S. Open, she would be
the first person since
Steffi Graf in 1988 to win
all four in one year.
And she is only two Grand Slam
titles between Graf right now
for most in the Open era.
Serena
has 20. Graf has 22. And
Serena already has the longest
span in that period since
1968. Between her first Grand
Slam title and her latest one,
it's almost 16 years.
And if she wins Wimbledon, it
will be the longest in the
history of the sport. It's
really remarkable.
Nobody has been this good
for this long in tennis.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, just
quickly, we don't want to
completely ignore the men.
Roger
Federer had a remarkable
performance today. He's the
same age as Serena Williams, 33.
How do you explain that?
TOM PERROTTA: Federer is --
yes, he's the player that time
forgot. It's pretty amazing.
Andy Roddick is here as a
commentator for the BBC. And
some of us were talking to
him after the match. And
Roddick is a year younger than
Federer. And he's already
retired.
He was out practicing at
Wimbledon today and he rolled
his ankle and hurt his foot.
He was playing with
a junior player.
And Federer never seems to get
hurt. He's incredibly light on
his feet. His technique
is beautiful. That has really
helped him a lot, also a great
serve, and continues to
have a lot of fun out there.
And he will be playing Novak
Djokovic, who is the number
one player in the world. They
played in the final last year.
Djokovic won in five
sets. It was a very, very good
match. And they have had a
great rivalry. Federer leads
20-19. It's very close.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tom Perrotta
with The Wall Street Journal, we
thank you.
Next: A new documentary takes
an intimate look at the life and
death of Amy Winehouse.
JEFFREY BROWN: July 23, 2011,
Amy Winehouse, the British mega
pop star, was found dead
from alcohol poisoning in her
London home. She was 27 years
old. Four years earlier,
she'd released her
multi-platinum album, "Back to
Black," including the hit song
"Rehab."
Her music was one window into
her life. It told of addictions
to drugs and alcohol and
troubled relationships, much of
which played out in public in
front of cameras, lots of
them. But now the new
documentary "Amy" use cameras in
another way, home movies,
behind-the-scenes
videos, phone footage and more,
to build what director Asif
Kapadia told me is a more
complete
portrait of the artist.
ASIF KAPADIA, Director, "Amy":
And my aim was to try to
humanize her, as much as
possible.
She didn't have a very good rep,
particularly here in the U.S.
People knew her songs,
but the word that comes up the
most in interviews is train
wreck, which is not a nice way
to
sum up a young girl.
So, really, my aim overall for
the film was to humanize her, to
show you how brilliant
she was, and for you to kind of
fall in love her. When you fall
in love with her, then
you feel very different when you
see the archive footage of the
paparazzi and her being hounded.
said they feel a bit angry by
the end, because then you
realize there was kind of a very
special soul there.
MAN: How big do you think
you are going to be?
AMY WINEHOUSE, Musician: I
don't. I don't, because my
music is not on that scale. My
music is not on that scale.
Sometimes, I wish it was. But I
don't think I'm going
to be at all fine with -- I
don't think I could handle it.
I would probably go mad.
Do you know what I
mean? I would go mad.
JEFFREY BROWN: Kapadia gained
access to footage from
Winehouse's family, friends and
record company and made what he
calls a mosaic. We rarely see
the faces of those talking.
What we do see in every
possible light is Amy herself.
AMY WINEHOUSE: I wouldn't write
unless it was directly personal
to me, just because
I wouldn't be able to
tell the story right.
ASIF KAPADIA: I find her face
and her eyes so expressive. But
you just see the way
they change gradually over time,
her hair, her body shape, all of
that.
For me, this is more cinematic.
This is a more of a theatrical
experience, where you
just spend two hours with the
lead person, the lead character
who is in front of you,
and not so much worrying about
who's talking, because they're
giving you an opinion. And
you're -- really, the audience
has to piece together everything
that is going on and form
their own opinion.
JEFFREY BROWN: Winehouse grew
up in North London listening to
jazz singers, and then
created her own sound and
phenomenon through a powerful
voice, raw lyrics, and sheer
force
of a personality that is
sometimes frightened, sometimes
funny and often ferocious.
(SINGING)
AMY WINEHOUSE: Oh, it's a bit
upsetting at the end, isn't it?
ASIF KAPADIA: She's just a
natural artist. She picks up a
guitar, goes up on the stage,
sings and blows you away.
So, really, the biggest
revelation for me was to
understand her personality, to
understand
that these songs were personal,
and they're like pages from her
diary. And there's problems
with addiction and the
relationships and the choices
that she made and people around
her
made.
Then you follow it through and
you realize, actually, enough of
the issues are already
there, but they're just about
under control. When you become
mega-famous and suddenly
the paparazzi are after you, it
all got a bit out of control.
Suddenly, she had become
a global star. And it was
something that she was a bit
fearful of right from a young
age.
JEFFREY BROWN: But if the
intimacy of the camera draws us
in, the vulture-like pursuit
and glare of constant cameras,
including those of the
paparazzi, repel us.
MAN: Amy Winehouse
is back in rehab.
JEFFREY BROWN: As we watch
Winehouse's life unravel.
ASIF KAPADIA: The idea is to
kind of make that feel as
visceral as possible, for us,
the audience, to be
in the middle of it.
I mean, literally, we are one of
the camerapeople in the middle
of it hounding Amy. There's
a recurring theme too in the
film on a kind of aesthetic
side, which is that we, the
audience,
become the person
holding the camera.
It starts off kind of innocent.
She's always performing in a way
for the camera. Later
on, it becomes more and more
aggressive and more and more
painful. And I guess we, the
audience, were the people
watching these videos. We're
clicking on those YouTube videos
of
her giving bad performances,
where somebody is buying those
tabloid newspapers. The
feeling was, the intention was
to make the audience slightly
complicit, to make us wonder
about how much did we play
a part in her downturn.
JEFFREY BROWN: Also called into
question, the role of some of
those closest to Winehouse.
Her family, after working with
the filmmaker, disassociated
itself from the movie, saying
it was -- quote -- "both
misleading and contained some
basic untruths."
Asif Kapadia says this:
ASIF KAPADIA: The aim was never
to point a finger in a
particular direction or
apportion
blame, but the whole thing
became very muddy and cloudy and
messy.
Most of the people who have seen
the film who were on the inner
circle, who were there,
even if they don't come out of
it well, have all said the film
is honest. And, most
importantly,
the person who comes out of it
best is Amy. And I guess that
is what I was hoping to
achieve.
AMY WINEHOUSE: I'm not a girl
trying to be a star. I'm just a
girl that sings.
JEFFREY BROWN: The documentary
"Amy" opens today in theaters
across the nation.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Jeffrey Brown.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight,
to our "NewsHour" Shares of the
day, something that caught our
eye which might be of
interest to you, too.
Tonight, an inside look at the
workshop of artist Koki Ruiz,
who this week put the finishing
touches on a massive edible
altar that Pope Francis will use
this weekend, when he celebrates
mass before thousands
in Paraguay.
KOKI RUIZ, Artist (through
translator): We are making the
altar to reflect the history
of our Mestizo culture, the
baroque of the Jesuit missions,
but with the fruits of the
earth.
Thinking about the indigenous
(INAUDIBLE) culture that speaks
of the seeds of mother
earth, like all the indigenous
from America before Columbus'
rival, thinking that earth
is mother earth, which feeds all
of her children equally. The
earth is bred for all of her
children. There are over 30,000
ears of corn that make up the
altar, 200,000 coconuts
or more, that have written
messages which bear the names of
people and their wishes.
many young people who are seeing
how creativity makes wonderful
things.
JOSE DEL RIO, Visitor (through
translator): Being an altar
that will be seen all over
the world, it's a pride and
joy for all of Paraguay.
OTILIA LOPEZ, Visitor (through
translator): This is unique in
Paraguay and in the whole
world. What can I say? It
gives you goose bumps.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The pope's mass
will begin at 10:00 a.m. local
time Sunday morning.
An editor's note before we go:
Last night, in my interview with
former President Jimmy
Carter, I mistakenly said that
Senator Bernie Sanders wants to
cut taxes on the wealthy.
I meant to say raise taxes on
the wealthy. I regret
misspeaking.
And a reminder about some
upcoming programs from our PBS
colleagues.
Gwen Ifill is preparing for
"Washington Week," which airs
later this evening.
Here's a preview.
GWEN IFILL: We take you behind
the scenes tonight to the big
federal personnel data
breach, to the late-night drama
that moved the Confederate Flag
debate from South Carolina
to the halls of the Congress, to
the 2016 campaign, where
candidates are raising money
hand over fist, while coping
with the Trump factor, and to
the negotiating table in Vienna,
where the U.S. and Iran are
moving cautiously toward and
away from a nuclear deal.
So much to talk about tonight
on "Washington Week" -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On "PBS NewsHour
Weekend" Saturday: from Northern
Somalia, the story
of one town's fight to prevent
its youth from fleeing to
Europe.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.